I did at least want to talk about
testing I said I was gonna do that and
then I wanna talk about the CI.
So I'll talk about those things don't
have time to actually do them but
I'll talk about them for testing we all
know the different types of testing.
There's unit testing, nothing changes
here with next JS and unit testing.
So you could use just to do your unit
testing with your components on a small
level that still works.
It literally has nothing to do with RxJS.
And if you want to in testing, there's so
many different solutions out there.
I've actually just been using Cypress,
Cypress is so good.
So I've just been using them,
really legit.
If you just want to test out
the API endpoints as well,
you can do the same thing.
You can unit test these things.
I mean, you can mark out these objects
quite I mean, there's only two arguments.
In this case three,
you can mark those out so easily.
Prisma works just like any other ORM
give it a test database to connect to.
You're good to go.
You don't have to do anything else.
That also works in jest.
And then if you want to do like, you
actually want to test out the endpoints.
Just like you would test any other API.
You can use something like super test or
super agent things.
That's another one that will just
test out the API endpoints for you.
That also works It basically the end of
the day, there's nothing unique about
testing a next as app versus testing any
other react app, or any other Express app.
It's basically the same thing.
I don't think there's even like a custom
next JS testing suite because it's
the same thing.
Not that I heard of, if it is it's new and
we both want to find out, like right now.
I'll update and
say use your Cypress and then use jest.
So yeah it's exactly what I recommend
it there's really nothing to it if
you've already tested react before
you already know how to test this.
It's pretty simple so and
then as far as CI goes there's so
many things to come that goes with CI.
I recommend using GitHub actions for the
CI, and that's crazy that I'm saying that,
coz I'm here, when this came out
like two years ago, I was like,
I'm never gonna use this.
It's never gonna happen.
I'm just gonna use Travis CI,
but it's actually really cool,
just have all your stuff
built in the GitHub.
And the community and the projects
around it are also really nice.
So, if you wanted to get started,
you can go to your repo.
Some of them are repositories,
we're gonna click on my repo.
And you can see right here it says
actions, you can click on Actions.
And you can go through here.
And you can find a workflow that you want,
I'm gonna type in.
They have a search here,
I don't think they have a search here.
If I want to find one for like
testing Express or no it used to be at
the top now it's not not like
you're not gonna do it, alright.
Okay, here we go.
We got some more.
There's a no JS when we start here and
acid test scripts ourself.
So you could like click here,
set this workflow up, and
basically you'll get this file.
You're gonna have to read their docs
on how to actually navigate this
Yamo file to understand how to use
like their whole jobs architecture and
things like that like what steps to take.
But he's ever seen Docker before,
a Docker compose is very much like that.
You check out some action,
you set some very binary variables, and
then you can run some commands, so
you can see where this thing actually
Test it runs NPM test, right?
And then you can you can set this up
into your your project, what it'll do is
it'll commit a file into a dot GitHub
folder slash workflows and put that there.
Then on every pull request
it'll pick that up.
All you got to do is in your settings for
your repo as you can go down to,
where is it, that's branches.
You go to branches you
can select a branch.
You click add a rule.
And then you can do is you can set
up a rule for like requiring status
status checks to pass In this will,
if your GitHub action exits with an error.
That's a failing status code,
so then it won't pass.
So you would say, yeah, I require all
those to pass and then therefore, yeah,
it won't do anything until that passes.
And that's how you can set up CI so
you can write whatever script that you
want in there to do whatever you want.
It's pretty powerful
just like any other car.
I think the only thing that's different
about this is if you wanna set environment
variables.
That one's a little weird.
You have to do it inside of
your own personal settings.
You got to go to settings and
you got to go to where's that?
Developer settings and now it's not here.
There's somewhere you got to add
environment variables that's kind
of weird.
Typically you'll do it on your
your organization's settings, so
he's not attached to your personal thing.
And that's it the other way is just
to use something like Travis CI or
circle CI Or Jenkins or
even slack now I guess.
This one's pretty simple,
It's kind of like Verso.
You just sign in with GitHub.
You point it to a repo and
you tell it what script to run.
That's it, and you just got to make
sure you set up the script that says,
I'm using node I need you to do an NPM
install, I need to do to do an NPM test.
Here's my database URL.
It's literally like
deploying is the same thing.
It's gonna need environment variables.
It's gonna need a repo, and then it'll
run and it will report back to GIThub for
you whether the test failed or not.
It's free for open source,
it costs money for private repos.
GitHub actions are free for
up until a certain point but for
what you mostly need will be free so
that's why he's gonna have actions cool.
Any questions on any of that stuff that
I just talked about deployment, CI,
testing, yes.
>> When we did the deployment and
it builds out a project it built looks
like a built set of pages for
sign in and sign out.
>> Yes.
>> Like a configuration in next door.
It's figuring that out because like
if you're just using create reactive
by default,
it just creates like an index page, right?
>> Yeah, so by default,
next JS will do a static build for
all your pages unless you put
a Git server side props on it.
So that playlist page had
to Git server side props so
it did not do a static build of that
because it just wouldn't have worked.
But it realized like you don't have a good
server side props on here this needs to be
static.
And then when that renders is now client
will use client side information to submit
the form and everything but yeah, by
default everything will be static unless
you opt out of it with
Git server side props.
Next year's runs in three modes, right?
It runs in client side mode,
it runs in server side mode.
And then foremost or
runs in a fully static mode and
then it runs in a hybrid
mode of either fully static,
plus client or server side plus client.
So and it'll do that depending on
the functions you write in your pages.
That's it.
Yeah, it's very cool.
Highly recommend, if you go look up.
They have a very specific thing in
their docs that talk about that.
I wanna say it's here on pages.
Let's see pages.
Pre rendering, here we go.
So they talked about that they pre made
are two different ways static generation
or server side rendering, yeah.
So server side rendering is with each
request with a server side prop static
generation is what we
did at the build time.
It'll just generate a page and
it'll cache it on a CDN.
But then you also own both of those can
opt into client side rendering as well, so
it gets pretty crazy.
They have a lot of examples here
mostly what CMS is a use case.
But yeah, you can of course
you're in front of masters
because there's a lot
of nuances about these.
And how they'll more about next
day is just take those courses and
yeah if you need help obviously just
tweet me let me know 10 questions.
>> Did you use react testing library for
integration testing?
>> I personally never used React testing
library I know Kent C DODDS made that live
and it's pretty legit But I'm like
it's funny saying that but I'm like so
old school now.
[LAUGH] I just got used to like my own
testing situation so I've never used React
testing library but I heard people talk
good things about it so it looks legit.
I think if I were to pick something
up new today I will use it.
But I literally have like my own testing
suite that I built myself that I like
never published and I just use that.
But yeah, looks cool.
>> Can we use user details or
can we make user details
server side rendered with SWR?
It is client only now.
>> How can we make user details with STVR?
His client only,
I think they're talking about the use me
hook that we're calling on the homepage.
So STVR only works client side.
So you can't use STVR on
the server side props.
But you could make a database query with
get server side props in the homepage to
get the user data and pass that in.
Yes, you could totally do that.
You don't have to do that client side.
I think when we wrote that
code I mentioned I was like,
there's no wrong way to do this.
You can do it either way that you want.
I decided to do a client side
just to show how STVR works.
Now custom hooks work.
But yeah, you could totally get the user
information server side and do it there.
I think the benefit of doing it client
side there, if you look at the design,
I think intentionally, or initially
there was this hovers getting my nerves,
but there's a dropdown
up here with the user.
Okay, so that's why I did a client side
because eventually you'd be able to
edit the user and there'll be a lot
of client side things happening.
So it's this is get the user client
side that way, cuz that's gonna change.
But we didn't do that so yeah you could
totally render that server side just like
we rented the artists
server side it's fine.